In this age of rapid internet growth, influencer marketing has become an indispensable element in daily life. Recent data indicates that people searched for the term “influencer marketing” 61,000 times per month (Scott,2020). It seems that influencer marketing is a phenomenon born with the development of science and technology, but everyone will have a different view in that. To figure out whether influencer marketing is an advantageous phenomenon or not, supporters argue in favor of promoting influencer marketing, citing its benefits to brands and customers. Nevertheless, opponents firmly state the difficulty in finding and collaborating with the appropriate influencer and contend that influencer marketing will negatively impact certain groups. This essay will discuss both sides of this argument.

The first major benefit of influencer marketing is boosting economic prosperity of the brand. According to Scott (2020), a brand can get access to their ideal consumers from the followers of the influencer because their followers are more likely to show interests in products related to influencers. Namely, with the assistance of influencer, the brand can reach target audience easily and smoothly instead of seeking blindly, thus contributing to economic growth of the brand. In addition, influencer marketing can help gain credibility and increase sales for a brand. For example, the majority of customers place their trust in information from reliable influencers (Scott,2020). Their trust could be transformed into trust in a brand. This is also supported by Nevins (2022) who reckons that when influencers mention the brand and endorse its goods, trust can be gradually built between target customers and the brand. If a brand build trust and obtain credibility successfully, it means customers will be more willing to purchase products of this brand. In summary, influencer marketing can yield significant economic benefits by properly engaging with the target customer and building trust.

Another reason to support influencer marketing is because of its positive impact on customers. To begin with, influencers can help improve customers’ mental health. As an illustration of this, Carston (2023) proposes that customers that feel isolated can acquire a sense of community from the influencer. He also asserts that if customers are suffering from mental health problems which are similar to influencers’, customers will be inspired and attempt to solve their own psychological issues actively. Apart from this, influencer marketing provides an excellent online platform for consumers, especially for those vulnerable individuals such as women and kids (Chugh,2023). He further explains that younger followers can learn some essential skills that are helpful to support their development and tips that enable younger generations to succeed in the future. Therefore, influencer marketing plays a significant role in customers’ mental health. Additionally, influencer marketing can educate buyers about the product. Nevins (2022) supposes that it is convenient for influencers to thoroughly teach customers how to use the product and tell them some tips worth noticing. For this reason, customers can smoothly comprehend how to employ the product and realize the particularity of the product. On the whole, it is thus evident that influencer marketing can not only improve mental health of customers but also educate customers with regard to products.

However, opponents of influencer marketing also present some powerful arguments regarding the negative impacts. The first argument is that there are some problems concerning finding and cooperating with influencers. Above all, it is extremely challenging for a brand to find the appropriate influencer. According to Flesher (2019), it may take an enormous amount of time and energy to find a suitable influencer who is ready to collaborate with the brand. In other words, finding an applicable influencer seems to be difficult for a brand. However, even if a brand successfully seeks out a right influencer, the performance of the influencer is unlikely to be perfect all the time. As Flesher (2019) explained, influencers are humans, and they may make mistakes. Considering the rapid change of the media, sometimes the condition tends to be uncontrollable. In this case, influencers cannot always make the right decision, thus damaging the brand’s credibility and reputation. Consequently, the brand must take the responsibility of the venture on account of the possibility that the influencer may make mistakes.

A second argument against influencer marketing is that it appears to produce an adverse effect on certain groups. Bradley (2021) points out that the extravagant and lavish lifestyle demonstrated by influencers may evoke envy among relatively impoverished followers. What is worse, this kind of phenomenon could lead to several psychological problems involving low self-esteem, negative attitudes towards life and even depressive feelings. Another group that may be injured is young target audience. Bradley (2021) elaborates that the reason why the young target audience are easier to be victims of influencer marketing is that their capacity to critically reflect is still limited. He also asserts that young audience has not wholly developed advertising literacy that help them critically think and resist temptation. Consequently, influencers probably mislead them intentionally or unintentionally and further impede the development of advertising literacy. Young audience are more likely to follow their suggestions even though these opinions are wrong. In general, influencer marketing has the potential to do harm to certain groups such as poor followers and young target audience.

In conclusion, there are merits to both sides of the issue. On the one hand, influencer marketing cannot only help a brand gain credibility and reach target audience but also help customers address mental issues and practical problems. It is likely that this will lead to business prosperity of the brand and psychological health of consumers. On the other hand, it also seems that there are some disadvantages of influencer marketing. These inappropriate behavior and remarks of influencers could negatively impact economic effects and vulnerable groups. The best way to resolve this dichotomy appears to strengthen the advertising literacy of the public and regulate the behavior of influencers to enable influencer marketing better serve the society.

Reference: 
Bradley, R. (2021) ‘The dark side of influencer marketing’ Fortune, pp.11-13 Available at: https://core.xjtlu.edu.cn/mod/folder/view.php?id=111923 (Accessed: 25 March 2024)
Carston, N. (2023) ‘The impact of using social media influencers in marketing on society and brands’, The Management Review, 3(4), pp. 74-76. Available at: https://core.xjtlu.edu.cn/mod/folder/view.php?id=111923 (Accessed: 25 March 2024)
Chugh, S. (2023) ‘How impactful influencer marketing is on society’ Entrepreneurship Express. Available at: https://core.xjtlu.edu.cn/mod/folder/view.php?id=111923 (Accessed: 25 March 2024)
Flesher, D. (2019) ‘Understanding the negative implications of influencer marketing’, Finance & Business Daily. Available at: https://core.xjtlu.edu.cn/mod/folder/view.php?id=111923 (Accessed: 25 March 2024)
Nevins, K. (2022) ‘The value of influencer marketing for brands’, Financial Quarterly, pp.16-18. Available at: https://core.xjtlu.edu.cn/mod/folder/view.php?id=111923 (Accessed: 25 March 2024)
Scott, D. (2020) ‘The pros and cons of influencer marketing: Is it right for business?’, Insights Success, pp. 58-61. Available at: https://core.xjtlu.edu.cn/mod/folder/view.php?id=111923 (Accessed: 25 March 2024)
